# SDSS-Classification

This project applies the photometric classification technique from González-Gaitan 
2014 on SDSS data to identify peculiar Type Ia Supernovae (SNe Ia).

## Todo:
- SNCosmo will raise occasional warnings about poor fits, bad S/N, and dropped bands. These warnings are currently being logged but otherwise ignored and need to be handled correctly.
- If a redshift for a supernova is not available, SNCosmo is instructed to fit for the redshift. A prior needs to be provided for the redshift.
- The `num_points_<band>` column in the fit summary tables contain the number of data points per observer frame band. We are interested in the number of points in the rest frame.
- We are currently fitting data with SNCosmo's built-in 91bg model, but would like to use our own custom model. This custom model is currently used to simulate SNANA light curves.
- Determine what K-correction was used in the published SDSS fit results and improve the quality of fits with large chi-squared compared to published results.


## File List / Overview

#### *./* 

General utilities

 - **download_data.py:** This script downloads data from the SDSS supernova survey to a directory called *data/* .
 - **parse_sn_data.py:** This module parses SDSS data tables. Missing data is downloaded automatically.

#### 91bg_model/

A spectrophotometric template for 91bg like supernovae. Based on Nugent's 91bg model but extendied to the UV with synthetic spectra from Hachinger et al. 2008.

- **Port 91bg Model.ipynb:** Jupyter notebook that ports the 91bg model into SNCosmo
- **sed_templates/SED.INFO:** Summary file of template spectra
- **sed_templates/<filename>.SED:** Template spectra with date to maximum, wavelength, and flux values

#### snana/ 

Simulating 91bg light curves using the SNANA Fortran package

- **sim_91bg.input:** An input file to SNANA that generates simulation results
- **snana_results/:** Directory of simulation results generated by *sim_91bg.input*
- **SNANA_plots.ipynb:** Plots exploring 91bg simulation results.



#### SNCosmo/

Fitting SDSS data with the SNcosmo python package

- **fit_sncosmo.py:** Uses SNCosmo to fit SDSSS light curves with a normal sn Ia model and the builtin 91bg model in the `ug`, `riz`, and `ugriz` rest frame bands.
- **sncosmo_results.ipynb:** Compares fit results between the normal and 91bg models in different bands.
- **sncosmo_vs_sdss.ipynb:** Compares fit results with published SDSS results.



#### snoopy/

Fitting SDSS data with the Snoopy (`snpy`) python package. Development here is unfinished and abandoned after the SNCsomo package was found to be more user friendly.

- **fit_snoopy.py:** Uses Snoopy to fit SDSSS light curves with a normal sn Ia model.